README.md, before:

[![Build][github-ci-image]][github-ci-link]
[![Coverage Status][codecov-image]][codecov-link]
[![PyPI Version][pypi-image]][pypi-link]
[![PyPI - Python Version][python-image]][pypi-link]
![License][license-image-mit]

# 🪆 Nested Dict Tools

**Nested Dict Tools** is a Python package that provides utilities for working with nested dictionaries. It includes:

- Recursive types for describing nested mappings and dictionaries.
- Fully typed functions to:
  - Flatten and unflatten nested dictionaries.
  - Get and set deeply nested values.
  - Filter and map functions on leaves.

```python:dev/readme_snippets/formatted/features_demo.py
from nested_dict_tools import (
    filter_leaves,
    flatten_dict,
    get_deep,
    map_leaves,
    set_deep,
    unflatten_dict,
)

nested = {"a": {"b": {"c": 42}}}

# Get a deeply nested value
value = get_deep(nested, ["a", "b"])
print(value)  # Output: {'c': 42}

# Set a deeply nested value
set_deep(nested, ["a", "z"], "new_value")
print(nested)  # Output: {'a': {'b': {'c': 42}, 'z': 'new_value'}}

# Flatten the nested dictionary
flat = flatten_dict(nested, sep=".")
print(flat)  # Output: {'a.b.c': 42, 'a.z': 'new_value'}

# Unflatten the flattened dictionary
unflattened = unflatten_dict(flat, sep=".")
print(unflattened == nested)  # Output: True

# Filter leaves
nested = filter_leaves(lambda k, v: isinstance(v, int), nested)
print(nested)  # Output: {'a': {'b': {'c': 42}}}

# Map on leaves
mapped = map_leaves(lambda x: x + 1, nested)
print(mapped)  # Output: {'a': {'b': {'c': 43}}}

# Map on leaves with several dictionaries
mapped = map_leaves(lambda x, y: x + y + 1, nested, nested)
print(mapped)  # Output: {'a': {'b': {'c': 85}}}


# Recursive types:
type NestedDict[K, V] = dict[K, NestedDictNode[K, V]]
type NestedDictNode[K, V] = V | NestedDict[K, V]
# Similar types for Mapping and MutableMapping
```

## ⬇️ Installation

You can install **Nested Dict Tools** via pip:

```bash
pip install nested-dict-tools
```

## 🧾 License

[MIT](LICENSE)

<!-- Links -->
[github-ci-image]: https://github.com/kajiih/nested_dict_tools/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg?branch=main
[github-ci-link]: https://github.com/kajiih/nested_dict_tools/actions?query=workflow%3Abuild+branch%3Amain

[codecov-image]: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/kajiih/nested_dict_tools/main.svg?logo=codecov&logoColor=aaaaaa&labelColor=333333
[codecov-link]: https://codecov.io/github/kajiih/nested_dict_tools

[pypi-image]: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/nested-dict-tools.svg?logo=pypi&logoColor=aaaaaa&labelColor=333333
[pypi-link]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/nested-dict-tools

[python-image]: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/nested-dict-tools?logo=python&logoColor=aaaaaa&labelColor=333333
[license-image-mit]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?labelColor=333333

Commit message:

💚 Test new code embedder workflow

README.md, after:

[![Build][github-ci-image]][github-ci-link]
[![Coverage Status][codecov-image]][codecov-link]
[![PyPI Version][pypi-image]][pypi-link]
[![PyPI - Python Version][python-image]][pypi-link]
![License][license-image-mit]

# 🪆 Nested Dict Tools

**Nested Dict Tools** is a Python package that provides utilities for working with nested dictionaries. It includes:

- Recursive types for describing nested mappings and dictionaries.
- Fully typed functions to:
  - Flatten and unflatten nested dictionaries.
  - Get and set deeply nested values.
  - Filter and map functions on leaves.

```python:dev/readme_snippets/formatted/features_demo.py
from nested_dict_tools import (
    filter_leaves,
    flatten_dict,
    get_deep,
    map_leaves,
    set_deep,
    unflatten_dict,
)

nested = {"a": {"b": {"c": 42}}}

# Get a deeply nested value
value = get_deep(nested, ["a", "b"])
print(value)  # Output: {'c': 42}

# Set a deeply nested value
set_deep(nested, ["a", "z"], "new_value")
print(nested)  # Output: {'a': {'b': {'c': 42}, 'z': 'new_value'}}

# Flatten the nested dictionary
flat = flatten_dict(nested, sep=".")
print(flat)  # Output: {'a.b.c': 42, 'a.z': 'new_value'}

# Unflatten the flattened dictionary
unflattened = unflatten_dict(flat, sep=".")
print(unflattened == nested)  # Output: True

# Filter leaves
nested = filter_leaves(lambda k, v: isinstance(v, int), nested)
print(nested)  # Output: {'a': {'b': {'c': 42}}}

# Map on leaves
mapped = map_leaves(lambda x: x + 1, nested)
print(mapped)  # Output: {'a': {'b': {'c': 43}}}

# Map on leaves with several dictionaries
mapped = map_leaves(lambda x, y: x + y + 1, nested, nested)
print(mapped)  # Output: {'a': {'b': {'c': 85}}}


# Recursive types:
type NestedDict[K, V] = dict[K, NestedDictNode[K, V]]
type NestedDictNode[K, V] = V | NestedDict[K, V]
# Similar types for Mapping and MutableMapping

# Adding this to test the code embedder script.
# It should be removed automatically.
```

## ⬇️ Installation

You can install **Nested Dict Tools** via pip:

```bash
pip install nested-dict-tools
```

## 🧾 License

[MIT](LICENSE)

<!-- Links -->
[github-ci-image]: https://github.com/kajiih/nested_dict_tools/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg?branch=main
[github-ci-link]: https://github.com/kajiih/nested_dict_tools/actions?query=workflow%3Abuild+branch%3Amain

[codecov-image]: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/kajiih/nested_dict_tools/main.svg?logo=codecov&logoColor=aaaaaa&labelColor=333333
[codecov-link]: https://codecov.io/github/kajiih/nested_dict_tools

[pypi-image]: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/nested-dict-tools.svg?logo=pypi&logoColor=aaaaaa&labelColor=333333
[pypi-link]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/nested-dict-tools

[python-image]: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/nested-dict-tools?logo=python&logoColor=aaaaaa&labelColor=333333
[license-image-mit]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?labelColor=333333
